So in Week 3 of Course 4,
you're going to cover many
different applications of NLP.
One thing you are going to
look at is question answering.
Given the question
and some contexts,
can you tell us what the answer
is going to be
inside that context.
Another thing you're going to
cover is transfer learning.
For example,
knowing some information by
training something
in a specific task.
How can you make use of
that information and apply
it to a different task?
You're going to look at BERT,
which is known as
the Bidirectional
Encoder Representation,
which makes use of transformers.
You'll see how you can use
bidirectionality to
improve performance.
Then you're going to
look at the T5 model.
Basically what this model does,
you can see here it has
several possible inputs.
So it could be question,
you get an answer.
It could be review and you
will get the rating over here.
It's all being fed
into one model.
Let's look at question answering.
Over here you have context-based
question-answering,
meaning you take in a
question and the contexts.
It tells you where the answer
is inside that's
context over here.
So this is the highlighted
stuff, which is the answer.
Then you have closed
book question answering,
which only takes the
question and it returns
the answer without having
access to a context,
so it comes up with
its own answer.
Previously we've seen
how innovations in
model architecture,
improved performance,
and we've also seen
how data preparation could help.
But over here, you're going
to see that innovations in
the way that training is being
done also improves performance.
In which case, you will see how
transfer learning will
improve performance.
This is the classical training
that you're used to seeing.
You have a course review,
this goes through a model and
let's you predict the rating.
Then you just predict
the rating the
same way as you've
always been doing.
So nothing changed here,
this is just an overview of
the classical training
that you're used to.
Now in transfer learning,
let's look at this example.
Let's say that you
have movie reviews
and then you feed them into
your model and you
predict a rating.
Over here you have
the pretrain task,
which is on movie reviews.
Now when training, you're going
to take the existing model or
movie reviews and then
you're going to find units
or train it again
on course reviews.
You'll predict the
rating for that review.
So as you can see over here,
instead of initializing
the weights from scratch,
you start with the
weights that you got
from the movie reviews and you
use them as a starter point
when training for
the course reviews.
At the end you do some
inference over here.
You do the inference the same
way you're used to doing,
you just take the course review,
you feed this into your model,
and you get your prediction.
So you can also use
transfer learning
on different tasks
is another example,
where you feed in the ratings and
some review and it gives you
sentiment classification.
Then you can train it on
a downstream tasks like
question-answering,
where you take the
initial weights over here
and you train it on
question answering.
So when is pay day?
The model answer's March 14th.
Then you can ask them
model the same question.
When's my birthday over here?
It does not know the answer.
But this is just
another example of how
you can use transfer
learning on different tasks.
Now we're going to look at BERT,
which makes use of
bi-directional context.
In this case, you have learning
from deep learning AI,
it's like watching the
sunset with my best friend.
Over here the context is
everything that's come before.
Then let's say you're
trying to predict
the next word, deep-learning AI.
Now when doing bi-directional
representations,
you'll be looking at the
context from this side and
from this side to
predict the middle word.
This is one of the main
takeaways for bidirectionality.
Now let's look at single
task versus multitask.
Over here you have a single
model which takes in
a review and then
predicts a rating.
Over here you have another
model which takes in
a question and
predicts an answer.
This is a single task,
each like one module per task.
Now, what you can do here with T5
is it is the same
model that's being
used to take the review,
predict the rating, and then take
the question and
predict the answer.
So instead of having
two independent models,
you end up having one model.
Let's look at T5.
Over here, the main takeaway
is that the more data you have,
generally the better
performance there is.
For example, the English
Wikipedia dataset
is around 13 gigabytes
compared to the C4
Colossal Clean Crawled.Corpus
is about a 800 gigabytes,
which is what T5 was trained on.
This is just to give you,
how much larger the
C4 data sets is,
when compared to the
English Wikipedia.
What are the desirable goals
for transfer learning?
First of all, you want to reduce
training time because you
already have a pre-trained model.
Hopefully, once you
use transfer learning,
you'll get faster convergence.
It will also improve
predictions because you'll
learn a few things from
different tasks that
might be helpful and useful for
your current predictions on
the task you're training on.
Finally, you might
require or need less data
because your model
has already learned
a lot from other tasks.
So if you have a smaller dataset,
then transfer learning
might help you.